---
title: Security Advisory WSO2-2026-5174/CVE-2026-3416
category: security-announcements
published: "July 04, 2026" 
version: "1.0"
severity: "Medium"
cvss: "5.9 (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N)"
---

# Security Advisory WSO2-2026-5174/CVE-2026-3416

<p class="doc-info">Published: July 04, 2026</p> 
<p class="doc-info">Updated: July 04, 2026</p>
<p class="doc-info">Version: 1.0</p>
<p class="doc-info">Severity: Medium</p>
<p class="doc-info">CVSS Score: 5.9 (CVSS:3.1/AV:N/AC:H/PR:N/UI:N/S:U/C:H/I:N/A:N)</p>
<p class="doc-info">CVE IDs: <a href="https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2026-3416">CVE-2026-3416</a></p>
---

### AFFECTED PRODUCTS
* WSO2 API Control Plane: 4.5.0
* WSO2 API Manager: 4.5.0, 4.4.0, 4.3.0, 4.2.0, 4.1.0


### OVERVIEW
Predictable webhook HMAC secrets due to the use of non-cryptographic pseudorandom number generation.


### DESCRIPTION
The API Publisher previously used a non-cryptographic pseudorandom number generator to generate shared secrets for Webhook HMAC validation. As this method does not provide sufficient entropy for security-sensitive operations, a sophisticated attacker may be able to predict future secrets. This could allow malicious actors to forge event payloads with valid HMAC signatures, thereby bypassing the API Gateway’s authenticity verification mechanisms.


### IMPACT
Successful exploitation of this vulnerability could allow an attacker to predict shared secrets used for Webhook HMAC validation and forge event payloads with valid signatures. This may enable bypassing API Gateway authenticity checks, leading to unauthorized event injection, data manipulation, or downstream system compromise.


### SOLUTION



#### Community Users (Open Source)
Apply the relevant fixes to your product using the public fix(es) provided below.

* [https://github.com/wso2/apim-apps/pull/1279](https://github.com/wso2/apim-apps/pull/1279)

If applying the fix or update is not feasible, migrate to the latest unaffected version of the respective WSO2 product(s).


#### Support Subscription Holders

Update your product to the specified update level or a higher update level to apply the fix.

!!! info todo
    **WSO2 Support Subscription Holders may use [WSO2 Updates](https://wso2.com/updates/) in order to apply the fix.**

| Product Name           | Product Version | Update Level |
| ---------------------- | --------------- | ------------ |
| WSO2 API Control Plane | 4.5.0           | 53           |
| WSO2 API Manager       | 4.5.0           | 52           |
| WSO2 API Manager       | 4.4.0           | 68           |
| WSO2 API Manager       | 4.3.0           | 104          |
| WSO2 API Manager       | 4.2.0           | 193          |
| WSO2 API Manager       | 4.1.0           | 253          |


